Add use case from original use case document to address issue 325 (#328)
ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture: draft-ietf-scitt-architecture.md

    contribution: >
      Orie contributed to improving the generalization of COSE building blocks and document consistency.

  - ins: D. Brooks
    name: Dick Brooks
    organization: Business Cyber Guardian (TM)
    email: dick@businesscyberguardian.com
    country: United States
    contribution: >
      Dick contributed to the software supply chain use cases.

>     

Reviewer: ```suggestion

ins: B. Knight
name: Brian Knight
org: Microsoft
email: [brianknight@microsoft.com](mailto:brianknight@microsoft.com)
country: United States
```

Author: No objection

>       Dick contributed some software supply chain use cases consistent with US DHS CISA Secure by Design principles and practices

Reviewer: Reducing the text a bit to focus on the IETF doc content.
```suggestion
      Dick contributed to the software supply chain use cases.
```

Author: No objection Steve.

    contribution: >
      Orie contributed to improving the generalization of COSE building blocks and document consistency.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Promotion of a Software Component by Multiple Entities

> A software component (e.g., a library or software product) released by a legitimate producer is common practice for both open-source and commercial offerings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A software component (e.g., a library or software product) released by a trusted producer is common practice for both open-source and commercial offerings.
```

> A software component (e.g., a library or software product) released by a certain original producer is common practice for both open-source and commercial offerings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A software component (e.g., a library or software product) released by a legitimate producer is common practice for both open-source and commercial offerings.
```

Reviewer 3: I'm fine with this change, in the context of this use case.

Author: I support these enhancements.

> The released software component is accompanied by a statement of authenticity (e.g., an embedded or a detached signature).

Reviewer: SCITT doesn't support embedded signatures, as they don't support the multi-party/post-build processes.
```suggestion
The released software component is accompanied by a statement of authenticity (e.g., a detached signature).
```

Author: @SteveLasker  you suggest removing embedded signatures. Does this mean that embedded signatures on artifacts are not supported in SCITT?

Reviewer: I'm suggesting we remove references to embedded signatures as SCITT doesn't know about them.
The content also conflates a few different concepts of attached/detached payloads, referencing an artifact the statement is about, and attached signatures that are not part of the SCITT Architecture. 

I'm going to suggest the following change.

SCITT doesn't support embedded signatures, as they don't support the multi-party/post-build processes.
```suggestion
The released software component is accompanied by a statement of authenticity.
```

Author: @SteveLasker Many post build artifacts, like MSI installation packages contain embedded digital signatures. This change seems to allow either/or embedded/detached authenticity evidence.

Reviewer 4: Let's make this (item 1) in a corresponding consensus-building discussion.

Author: Good idea, Henk. No objection.
The SCITT protocol must exhibit a process is indeed designed to ensure trust, as best as possible. We should try to remove as much uncertainty as possible from the protocol so that people will know a SCITT registry is genuinely a source of trustworthy materials

Reviewer 2: I like the @SteveLasker suggestion of terminating sentence at authenticity.

Reviewer 5: I also like the approach of terminating the sentence early. Cut early, cut often!

More seriously, it's an (eg) so...

Over time, due to its enhanced applicability to various products, there has been an increasing amount of multiple providers of the same software component version on the internet.

> Some providers include this particular software component as part of their release product package bundle and provide the product package with proof of authenticity using their own issuer authority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some providers include this particular software component as part of their release product/package bundle and provide the package with proof of authenticity using their issuer authority.
```

Reviewer 4: harmless, editorial

Some packages include the original statement of authenticity, and some do not.
Over time, some providers no longer offer the exact same software component source code but pre-compiled software component binaries.
Some sources do not provide the exact same software component, but include patches and fixes produced by third-parties, as these emerge faster than solutions from the original producer.
Due to complex distribution and promotion life-cycle scenarios, the original software component takes myriad forms.

A consumer of a released software wants to:

> * understand if a particular provider is actually the original authorized producer or an alternative party

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* understand if a particular provider is actually a legitimate producer or an alternative party
```

> * understand if a particular provider is actually the original authorized producer or an alternative party

Reviewer 6: What does authorized mean in the context of all possible subjects of a statement by an issuer? For freely and openly licensed software, there are little or no restrictions on a producer of software, not to speak of public domain work.

Is there alternative wording for authorized? I have thought of it for a little while, but have yet to find alternative wording I could propose. I will think about it some more though.

Reviewer: I struggle with Authorized as well, as it's also not clear who is stating who should be "authorized" and to whom?

A consuming company may authorize EntityA, but not EntityB, while another may require a different Entity to produce the same package, such as RedHat or a specific Industry "authorized" endorsement.

Originating could also be questioned. 
At the end of the day, the verifier makes a decision which issuers they trust, for a given environment.

Author: @SteveLasker would it help to replace "authorized" with "legitimate".

People need to be able to determine if an artifact is to be trusted, or not, based on a verifiable method. I'm asserting that the presence of an artifact in a SCITT registry is sufficient to make it trustworthy, but the process used to register an artifact in a SCITT trust registry needs to be able to discern a trustworthy artifact and one that is false, or not trustworthy.

Somehow, the SCITT "solution" needs to be able to discern trusted artifacts from untrusted artifacts and the ability to establish trust in the artifacts supply chain is key to this process. Only trusted artifacts, submitted by trusted parties make their way into a SCITT trust registry, IMO.

Reviewer: How does an entity determine trust?

Author: @SteveLasker I'm hoping the SCITT spec will describe how trust is ascertained before an item is placed into the registry. Then parties can simply trust an artifact because it is in the registry, and has been properly vetted as trustworthy. This is how a "Registry of Deeds" works, which IMO is a good model for a SCITT Trust Registry. Only trusted artifacts can be placed into the registry.

Reviewer 4: Let's make this (item 2) in a corresponding consensus-building discussion.

Reviewer 6: > Let's make this (item 2) in a corresponding consensus-building discussion.

What's the venue or media for that discussion, the mailing list?

Reviewer 5: It's probably fair to take that to the mailing list since it will read into what non-SCITT WGs might want to do with SCITT. Making sure we have the meaning of an Issuer signature really understood is no bad thing

* know if and how the source, or resulting binary, of a promoted software component differs from the original software component
* check the provenance and history of a software component's source back to its origin
* assess whether to trust a component or product based on a downloaded package location and source supplier

SCITT provides a standardized way to:

> * reliably discern if a provider is the original, trusted producer or is a trustworthy alternative provider or is an illegitimate provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* reliably discern if a provider is the original, legitimate producer or is a trustworthy alternative provider or is an illegitimate provider
```

Author: I can support this enhancement on line 320.

Reviewer: Does using "legitimate" require the definition of what makes an issuer "legitimate"? 
"Trusted" is the choice of the verifier, or the TS when notarizing the signed statements. This seems more well-understood and less controversial.

Author: No objection to this enhancement.

Reviewer: Based on the call 1/21/25, we've settled on "trusted" for line 301 and 320. 
Please reactivate if you feel strongly

Author: No objections to this consensus position. Good compromise. I presume that someone will make this change and I don't have to make this change - correct?

Reviewer: Hi, @rjb4standards, yes the changes were committed to this PR. Please review: https://github.com/ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture/pull/328/files

> * reliably discern if a provider is the original, trusted producer or is a trustworthy alternative provider or is an illegitimate provider

Reviewer 6: Like my previous comment, are there more neutral and perhaps less loaded terms than illegitimate?

Reviewer 4: part of (item 2)

### Promotion of a Software Component by Multiple Entities

> A software component (e.g., a library or software product) released by a trusted producer is common practice for both open-source and commercial offerings.

Reviewer 5: I had to read this about 5 times before I could convince myself it makes grammatical sense, but I'm OK with it now. Won't risk resetting all the other ticks to request a clarification.

Reviewer: nod. If we can come up with a suggestion, we can merge in an editorial update.
